---
title: "Google Data Analytics Capstone: <br>Bellabeat Case Study"
author: "Cara Zablan"
date: "2024-09-02"
output: html_document
---
### Introduction
Bellabeat is a wellness tech company founded by Urška Sršen and Sando Mur. The company was founded in 2014 and has seen exponential growth in the last few years they have been in operation. In this case study, we will pretend that Urška Sršen is looking to data analysis to make better business decisions and to gain consumer insights from outside her customer base. In this case study I will pretend to work as a Junior Data Analyst for Bellabeats, and create a data analysis report that shows consumer trends in the wearable wellness tracker industry.


### Problems
#### Business Task:

Urška Sršen wants us to analyze wearable wellness tracker usage information from [FitBit Fitness Tracker Data](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit) for Bellabeats to gain insight into consumer trends of non-Bellabeats wearable smart devices, to see how these trends could apply to Bellabeats consumers, and what influence it could have on the Bellabeats marketing strategy. 


#### Data Source Description:

The [FitBit Fitness Tracker Data](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit) from https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit is a dataset consisting of 30 FitBit users personal tracker data, this includes minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, daily activity, steps, heart rate, and sleep monitoring. This data was generated by respondents to a survey distributed by Amazon Turk from March 12, 2016 through May 12, 2016.


### Solutions
Data has been imported from https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit into Rstudio Cloud in order to be prepared, processed, and analyzed. The dataset is composed of a zip folder containing multiple .csv files containing the personal tracker data of 30 FitBit users, over the course of 3 months. In this report we will be analyzing the Daily Activity data, as well as the weight log data from March 12, 2016 to April 11, 2016.

<br>

#### Documentation of Data Cleaning:
##### Installing data analysis packages:
```{r install tidyverse package}
install.packages("tidyverse")
```

```{r}
library("tidyverse")
library("ggplot2")
```

##### Installing data cleaning packages:
```{r}
install.packages("here")
install.packages("skimr")
install.packages("janitor")
install.packages("dplyr")
```

```{r loading data cleaning packages}
library("here")
library("skimr")
library("janitor")
library("dplyr")
```
<br>

##### Importing Daily Activity data:
Here we can see that the Daily Activity data is organized in a long table with 457 rows and 15 columns.
```{r}
dailyActivity_df <- read_csv("dailyActivity_merged.csv")
```


##### Data cleaning Daily Activity data:
The list below shows a summary of the Daily Activity data.
```{r}
summary(dailyActivity_df)
```


The table below is a preview of the first 6 rows of the Daily Activity data frame.
```{r}
head(dailyActivity_df)
```
<br>

##### Importing Weight Log data:
Here we can see that the Weight Log data is organized in a long table with 33 rows and 8 columns.
```{r}
weightLog_df <- read_csv("weightLogInfo_merged.csv")
```


##### Data cleaning Weight Log data:
The list below shows a summary of the Weight Log data.
```{r}
summary(weightLog_df)
```


The table below is a preview of the first 6 rows of the Weight Log data frame.
```{r}
head(weightLog_df)
```

The table below shows the Weight Log as grouped by user Id.
```{r}
weightLog_df %>% group_by(Id)
```


### Conclusion
#### Analysis Summary:
According to the Daily Acitivity summary table, the average total daily steps the FitBit users were logging in between March 12, 2016 to April 11, 2016 was 6547 steps per day, and the median steps per day was 5986. These numbers are well below the recommended 10,000 steps daily which would indicate that the majority of the FitBit users led relatively less active lifestyles. The summary for the Weight Log data shows that the mean BMI was 25.73, and the median BMI was 24.39. The BMI records show that the average FitBit user weighed within healthy BMI limits.

#### Visualizations and Key Findings:

##### Weight Log Scatterplot, BMI per User ID:
```{r}
ggplot(data=weightLog_df)+
  geom_point(mapping = aes(x=BMI, y=Id))
```

##### Daily Activity Scatterplot, Activity Date vs Total Steps Taken:
```{r}
ggplot(data=dailyActivity_df)+
  geom_point(mapping = aes(x=ActivityDate, y=TotalSteps))
```

#### Findings:
The two visualizations show that the weight of the FitBit users were varied and evenly spread out, and that a majority of the users logged the most total steps per day in April. It is unclear if the weather and season changes that take place between the months of March and April had a large effect on total steps taken per day by the FitBit users.

### Next Steps
#### Top Recommendations:
The data used in this report shows that the average FitBit user is within the normal weight range according to their BMI, and lead a relatively less active lifestyle. My recommendations would be to market and design wearable trackers for casual daily wear that come fun colors and can be used more like an accessory or mimmic jewelry to cater to their athleisure market.
